docs/start_choosing.rst, before:

.. _start_choosing:

Choosing a visualization
========================

When choosing a visualization, it is recommended to always begin by looking at a hillshade of the area under investigation. They provide the most ‘natural’ visual appearance of the topography and can help you decide which other techniques could work well.

By feature type
---------------

If you need some help to get started after trying a hillshade, consider the type of feature you're working with:

   .. image:: ./figures/choose_suitability.png
   
   **Table 1: Suitability of visualisation techniques for representing selected archaeological topographical features.**

----

By topography type
------------------

You can also try adding techniques from Table 2, in order from left to right, based on the topography of the area under investigation (see visual examples below). 

   .. image:: ./figures/choose_topography.png

   **Table 2: Matrix for the suitability of visualisation techniques for selected archaeological relief features in different topographic settings.**

Flat terrain
^^^^^^^^^^^^
   .. image:: ./figures/choose_flat.png

----

Gentle slopes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
   .. image:: ./figures/choose_gentle.png

----

Moderate slopes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
   .. image:: ./figures/choose_moderate.png

----

Steep slopes or complex topography 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: ./figures/choose_steep.png


.. seealso:: Find out more about choosing visualizations in Kokalj, Žiga, Ralf Hesse. 2017. `Airborne laser scanning raster data visualization: A Guide to Good Practice <https://omp.zrc-sazu.si/zalozba/catalog/book/824>`_. Ljubljana: Založba ZRC.

Commit message:

Text on list of visualizations pages

docs/start_choosing.rst, after:

.. _start_choosing:

Choosing a visualization
========================

When choosing a visualization, it is recommended to always begin by looking at a hillshade of the area under investigation. Hillshading provides the most ‘natural’ visual appearance of the topography and can help you decide which other techniques could work well.

.. seealso:: Find out more about the visualizations that RVT can produce in :ref:`listofvis_main`.

----

By feature type
---------------

If you need some help to get started after trying a hillshade, consider the type of feature you're working with:

   .. image:: ./figures/choose_suitability.png
   
   **Table 1: Suitability of visualisation techniques for representing selected archaeological topographical features.**

----

By topography type
------------------

You can also try adding techniques from Table 2, in order from left to right, based on the topography of the area under investigation. 

   .. image:: ./figures/choose_topography.png

   **Table 2: Matrix for the suitability of visualisation techniques for selected archaeological relief features in different topographic settings.**

See below for visual examples of the methods suggested in Table 2.

Flat terrain
^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. image:: ./figures/choose_flat.png

----

Gentle slopes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. image:: ./figures/choose_gentle.png

----

Moderate slopes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. image:: ./figures/choose_moderate.png

----

Steep slopes or complex topography 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: ./figures/choose_steep.png


.. seealso:: Find out more about choosing visualizations in Kokalj, Žiga, Ralf Hesse. 2017. `Airborne laser scanning raster data visualization: A Guide to Good Practice <https://omp.zrc-sazu.si/zalozba/catalog/book/824>`_. Ljubljana: Založba ZRC.
